Our Policy Commentary for the T20 Brazil
2024 Global Election Datafication SafeGuarding: Holistic Collaboration Policies between Digital Platform Regulators and Electoral Authorities


Paris, July 24, 2024 - T20 Brasil proposed a priority list of issues regarding “Brasil 2024, Let’s rethink the world”.  This following abstract has been part of the accepted papers.This policy commentary is listed under the TF05 Inclusive Digital Transformation about Global Digital Governance and Regulation of Digital Platforms. UNESCO’s Internet for Trust (I4T) defines a series of clear digital platform regulation and safeguarding guidelines. I4Tpolicy explores ways in which these UNESCO guidelines1 can be considered and applied to the use of data in electoral processes. As the world experiences a wave of pivotal elections (India, The U.S., many African countries like Mali, Senegal, Rwanda, and South Africa), the datafication of electoral processes emerges as both a profound challenge and a unique opportunity because a balance between rights to privacy and protecting the privacy of personal data must be carefully struck on a global scale. A nuanced balance requires national coordination between election authorities and media/digital regulators as well as international cooperation of their respective networks. This transformation, driven by the expansive use of Big Data and digital technologies, amplifies risks resulting from misinformation, censorship by omission and AI-driven active privacy invasions, via social media. AI and cyber threats will undermine the integrity of democratic processes if international communities led by G7 & G20 fail to respond to such info-war crises. Consequently, our consultative efforts focussed on the urgent need for electoral bodies, regulators, and policymakers to embrace new transnationally interdependent policy approaches, to be able to safeguard electoral integrity in increasingly interconnected societies and a data-driven political landscape.


The final Policy Commentary from I4T Knowledge can be downloaded here.


It's the combined efforts of 9 women and 6 men from the following organisations UPF Barcelona School of Management, Portulans Institute, DCN Global, Radical Xchange, #leplusimportahnt, 5Rights Foundation, Human-Ai.Institute, InternetLab,  Idea Corp, E-Governance and Internet Governance Foundation for Africa, Research ICT Africa, Council for Tech and Social Cohesion, Aláfia Lab,  Desinformante, Centre for Internet & Society, SDG Action Hub Kenya, University Melbourne.